FINDING — sweeping for holes a hand-run campaign could not have thought of
=========================================================================
2026-07-25, model-free. `_hole_hunt.py` over all 25 archived -v4 artifacts.

FINAL: four shapes, every site — 39 probes, 11 survivors, 6 genuine undefended promises.
  status code      3 genuine / 9      response header  1 genuine / 8 (+3 spec gaps)
  sort order       0 genuine / 6      error wrapping   2 genuine / 10

CLOSED SO FAR — 2 of the 6, each graded against a before-table rather than an expectation:
  shortener  GET /health -> 200 "ok"        SURVIVED -> CAUGHT   (PREDICTION-shortener-health-hole)
  shortener  malformed-JSON 400             SURVIVED -> CAUGHT   (PREDICTION-shortener-malformed-json)
  Both still caught after the second closure, so closures COMPOSE — the spec accumulates
  defended promises instead of trading them, which is what makes the remaining four worth
  the fleet runs they cost.

OPEN — 4, all in taskflow and tasks-api:
  taskflow   response Content-Type          (spec: "writeJSON ... sets Content-Type")
  taskflow   projects malformed-body 400    (named for the tasks route, not its twin)
  taskflow   ErrValidation, 1 of 3 wraps    (the other two ARE defended — site, not file)
  tasks-api  ErrInvalidTask                 (4 errors.Is asserts, all on the OTHER sentinel)

(The filename says status-code because that is the shape it started with; three more
followed and the sections below are in the order they were run, each with its own spec
check. The title is what the file is about; the name is where it began.)

The document is written in the order the work happened, so the first section's headline —
"two holes, only one of them counts" — is true of the first pass and superseded by the
totals above. Read on for how each shape was chosen, what it caught, and which survivors
turned out not to be holes at all.

WHY SWEEP AT ALL
  The teeth campaign reached 29 CAUGHT / 0 SURVIVED by choosing invariants to test one at
  a time. That number reads as "no holes left" and actually means "no holes left among the
  ones I thought to check". The difference is exactly the failure this project keeps
  naming, so: sweep. For every artifact, find a status-code write in the code, swap it for
  a plausible neighbour, ask whether the suite goes red.

RESULT: 9 artifacts had a mutable status write. 5 CAUGHT, 2 BASELINE-RED (verdict void —
tasks-api-min and tasks-api-noshadownudge are already failing, so nothing can be concluded
about them), and 2 SURVIVED.

SURVIVOR 1 — shortener. A REAL undefended promise.
  handlers.go:26 `writeJSON(w, http.StatusBadRequest, nil)` -> StatusNotFound. Suite green.

  The spec promises THREE ways to earn a 400:
      "400 on malformed JSON or when the url field is empty or fails url.ParseRequestURI"
  and it names ONE test for them:
      "TestShortenBadRequest: POST /shorten with `{\"url\":\"\"}` -> 400."
  That test exercises the empty-field branch at line 30. The malformed-JSON branch at line
  26 is promised in prose, has no test, and can return anything at all without a single
  number moving.

  Textbook shape for this project: an error path in a small HTTP spec, and a spec whose
  PROSE promises more than its NAMED tests cover. That is the spec-writer's half of the
  contract, and _named_test_audit cannot see it — the named test exists, so the audit is
  satisfied; it is the promise BEHIND the name that is short.

SURVIVOR 2 — taskflow. Real behaviour change, and NOT a hole worth the name.
  middleware.go:38 `rec := &statusRecorder{..., status: http.StatusOK}` -> StatusAccepted.
  The spec does mention it — "a Logging middleware (method, path, resolved status via a
  statusRecorder ...)" — so a handler that never calls WriteHeader would now be LOGGED as
  202 when it served 200.
  But the deviation is confined to log output. Defending it means capturing stdout in a
  test, which no spec here asks for and which would be a strange thing to require. Calling
  this an undefended invariant would inflate the count with something no reasonable suite
  defends.

  Recorded because the honest half of a sweep is the part you decline to claim. Two rows
  came back identical from the tool's point of view — SURVIVED, green build, real change —
  and only reading the SPEC separates a genuine hole from a curiosity.

WHAT TO DO WITH SURVIVOR 1
  It is a real gap and it is also exactly what the review-pass experiment needs
  (PREDICTION-review-pass-value.txt): a green build containing a known, spec-relevant
  semantic bug, with ground truth because the break is ours. So it gets used before it
  gets closed, and closing it means the spec naming a second test — the fix belongs to
  the spec, not to a gate, because "which of three conditions returns 400" is not
  something a compiler can name.

SCOPE: status codes only, one swap per artifact, first code-site only. This is the
cheapest sweep, not an exhaustive one. Other shapes — headers, sort order, error wrapping
— would each need their own pass, and the yield here (1 genuine hole in 9 probes after a
campaign that believed it was done) says those passes are worth writing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
SHAPE 2 — drop a response header. 4 more survivors, ONE more real hole.

  Dropping the `w.Header().Set(...)` line entirely is a sharper probe than changing its
  value: a strict equality assert can still catch a wrong value, but a test that never
  reads response headers cannot notice either way.

      kvservice   drop Content-Type   CAUGHT        (closed by hand in the campaign)
      ratelimit   drop Retry-After    CAUGHT
      shortener   drop Content-Type   SURVIVED
      taskflow    drop Content-Type   SURVIVED
      tasks-api   drop Content-Type   SURVIVED
      usersapi    drop Content-Type   SURVIVED
      (tasks-api-min, tasks-api-noshadownudge: BASELINE-RED, verdict void)

  Then the question that separates a candidate from a hole — does the SPEC promise it?

      taskflow   YES. "writeJSON(w, status int, v any) that sets Content-Type
                 application/json and encodes v". And the suite only ever sets
                 Content-Type on REQUESTS (req.Header.Set); nothing reads it off a
                 response. A promised header, defended by nothing. REAL HOLE.
      shortener  NO mention of Content-Type anywhere in the spec.
      tasks-api  NO mention.
      usersapi   NO mention.

  TWO SHAPES, TOTAL: 18 probes, 6 SURVIVED, 2 genuine undefended promises —
  shortener's malformed-JSON 400 and taskflow's response Content-Type. The raw survivor
  count overstates real holes by 3x, and only reading the spec closes the gap. That is the
  caveat from the first pass, now with a number on it.

  AND THE THREE NON-PROMISES ARE NOT NOTHING. A JSON API that never states its response
  Content-Type is a SPEC gap, not a test gap. This project's own law is that implicit
  means broken and naming is the spec-writer's job (_named_test_audit's METHOD notes), so
  the fix for those three is a line in the spec — after which a test can be named for it,
  and only then can teeth defend it. The sweep found them by breaking them, which is the
  only way an unstated promise ever surfaces.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
EXHAUSTIVE PASS (--all-sites) — the first-site limit was hiding holes

  Both sweeps above stopped at the FIRST mutable site per artifact, which was a cost
  decision presented as a method. Probing every site: 23 probes, 9 SURVIVED, three of them
  new. Applying the spec test to the three:

  1. shortener router.go, StatusOK -> StatusAccepted on /health. REAL, and the cleanest
     hole found so far. The spec states it outright — `"GET /health" -> 200 "ok"` — and NO
     test in the artifact touches /health at all. A named behaviour with zero coverage;
     the endpoint could return anything.

  2. taskflow projects_handler.go, StatusBadRequest -> StatusNotFound on a MALFORMED body.
     REAL, with a caveat worth stating: the spec names TestMalformedJSON for the TASKS
     route ("POST truncated bytes -> 400") and names nothing equivalent for PROJECTS,
     whose named test covers only the empty-name validation branch. So it is not an
     unstated promise — it is a promise stated for one route and not for its twin. The
     model wrote the handler correctly both times; only one of them is defended.

  3. usersapi middleware.go, StatusOK -> StatusAccepted. The statusRecorder default again,
     exactly like taskflow's: log-only output, not worth calling a hole. Second time this
     exact shape has surfaced, which is itself informative — it is a recurring FALSE
     positive of this probe and should be recognised rather than re-litigated.

  ==> The cheap pass found 2 genuine holes; the exhaustive pass found 2 more. That is the
  argument against under-sampling stated as a number, and it lands on the same lesson the
  teeth campaign is built on: an absence of findings is not an absence of holes. The
  campaign's 29 CAUGHT / 0 SURVIVED was true of the mutations someone thought to write.

  RUNNING TALLY across both shapes, all sites: 23 probes, 9 survivors, 4 genuine
  undefended promises (shortener malformed-JSON 400, shortener /health, taskflow response
  Content-Type, taskflow projects malformed-body 400), 2 recurring log-only false
  positives, 3 behaviour changes the spec never asked for (which are SPEC gaps, not test
  gaps).

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
SHAPE 3 — reverse a sort comparator. SIX sites, ZERO holes.
  ⚠️ WRONG — SEE THE CORRECTION AT THE END OF THIS FILE. There are SEVEN sites and one of
  them is a genuine hole; the seventh was unaddressable by the text-based mutator, so this
  section's "fully defended" was an artefact of how the tool edits, not a fact about the
  suite.

  TEETH.md already fixes the form: deleting a `sort.Slice` catches only probabilistically
  (the unsorted order depends on Go's map-iteration randomness), so an order invariant is
  probed by REVERSING the comparator, which fails every run or never.

      logstats     stats.go   reverse sort by Path       CAUGHT
      priorityqueue pq.go     reverse sort by Priority   CAUGHT
      taskflow     store.go   reverse sort by ID         CAUGHT
      tasks-api    store.go   reverse sort by ID         CAUGHT
      usersapi     store.go   reverse sort by ID         CAUGHT
      tasks-api-noshadownudge                            BASELINE-RED (void)

  Every one defended. A shape that yields nothing is a result, not a wasted pass: sort
  order is exactly the invariant the campaign hardened by hand (three of these are
  registered teeth mutations), and an independent sweep agreeing with the registry is the
  cross-check that registry was missing.

  THE PATTERN NEEDED FIXING FIRST, and the fix is the third instance of the same mistake
  in one day. The comparator regex was anchored to the whole line — `^\\s*return X[i].F <
  Y[j].F$` — and five of the six comparators in the corpus are written INLINE:
      sort.Slice(out, func(i, j int) bool { return out[i].ID < out[j].ID })
  So the first run of this shape probed ONE site of six and reported a clean sweep. In a
  shape added specifically to fix under-sampling. Widened to a substring match (only the
  matched text is rewritten, so the flip stays unambiguous), and the count went 1 -> 6.

  ==> Across three shapes, all sites: 29 probes, 9 survivors, 4 genuine undefended
  promises, and one shape with no holes at all. The sweep is now cheap to extend and
  bounded by which shapes someone thinks to write — the same limit the hand campaign had,
  moved up one level, and worth saying plainly rather than letting the tool imply
  completeness.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
SHAPE 4 — unwrap an error (%w -> %v). The sharpest probe here, and the best yield.

  `fmt.Errorf("...: %w", ErrX)` -> `%v` leaves the message BYTE-IDENTICAL and breaks
  errors.Is. A test that compares the error string still passes; only a test that actually
  calls errors.Is notices. So a SURVIVED here is not merely a missing test — it is a test
  that checks the wrong thing, which no amount of reading the suite for coverage reveals.

      logstats    parse.go    %w -> %v   CAUGHT
      taskflow    models.go   %w -> %v   SURVIVED
      tasks-api   task.go     %w -> %v   SURVIVED
      tasks-api-min / -noshadownudge     BASELINE-RED (void)

  Both survivors are spec-promised, checked rather than assumed:
      taskflow   "errors.Is: ErrNotFound, ErrExists, ErrValidation" — named explicitly.
      tasks-api  mentions errors.Is twice.
  So both are REAL: the spec asks for sentinel errors to be identifiable by errors.Is, the
  implementation wraps them correctly, and nothing would notice if it stopped.

  YIELD BY SHAPE, all sites:
      status codes      3 genuine holes / 9 probes
      response headers  1 genuine / 8 probes  (+3 spec gaps)
      sort order        0 genuine / 6 probes  (fully defended)
      error wrapping    2 genuine / 5 probes  <- highest rate
      TOTAL            34 probes, 11 survivors, 6 genuine undefended promises

  Error wrapping being the best yield is not an accident of this corpus. The other three
  shapes change something a test can SEE by accident — a status code, a header, an order.
  This one changes nothing observable except through the one API that checks it, so a
  suite passes unless someone deliberately wrote errors.Is. It is the shape most likely to
  be undefended and the least likely to be noticed, which is the definition of where a
  mutation sweep earns its keep.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
EVERY WRAP, NOT ONE PER FILE — "defended" turns out to be a property of a SITE

  Shape 4 originally probed the first `%w` in each file. Probing every one changes what
  the table says:

      logstats   parse.go   ErrBadLine      CAUGHT ×4            fully defended
      taskflow   models.go  ErrValidation   SURVIVED, CAUGHT, CAUGHT   HALF defended
      tasks-api  task.go    ErrInvalidTask  SURVIVED             (ErrNotFound: 4 asserts)

  taskflow's models.go wraps ErrValidation three times and the suite defends two of them.
  One-site probing would have reported whichever it hit and called the file settled — and
  which one it hits is alphabetical accident, not evidence.

  tasks-api is the sharper case because it looks BETTER than it is. Its tests call
  errors.Is four times, which reads as a suite that takes sentinel errors seriously. All
  four check ErrNotFound. The spec promises two sentinels; the second, ErrInvalidTask, has
  no errors.Is assertion anywhere. A reviewer scanning for "does this suite use errors.Is"
  gets yes, and the answer is only half true.

  ==> The unit of defence is a SITE, not a file and not an API. "The suite tests errors.Is"
  is not a fact about a suite; it is a fact about one sentinel in one place. Any audit that
  aggregates above that level — including a human reading for coverage — will report the
  defended half and stop.

  This is the same shape as the shortener hole one level down: there, a spec NAMED a test
  and the promise behind the name was broader than the test. Here a suite USES the right
  API and the promise behind the API is broader than the assertions. Both are invisible to
  anything that checks for presence rather than for reach.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE THREE "SPEC GAPS", CHECKED RATHER THAN ASSERTED — and they are the fragile kind

  Earlier this file called shortener's, tasks-api's and usersapi's Content-Type survivors
  spec gaps rather than test gaps. Verified:

      spec mentions Content-Type   code sets Content-Type
      shortener        0                    yes
      tasks-api        0                    yes
      usersapi         0                    yes

  So the model writes `Content-Type: application/json` because that is what a JSON handler
  looks like, not because anything asked. Nothing in the spec requires it, no test reads
  it, and the deterministic gates have no opinion about it.

  That combination is worth naming: it is behaviour held up by NOTHING but the model's
  habit of being conventional. It is not a bug today and it is not defended tomorrow —
  a different sampling temperature, a different adapter, a re-roll, and it can simply stop,
  with every signal the project has staying green. The teeth campaign's whole premise is
  that a green suite does not prove a promise holds; this is the case where there is no
  promise to hold and the behaviour is still expected by whoever consumes the API.

  So the fix really is a spec line, and NOT because a rule says implicit is broken: it is
  because the alternative is depending on a model's taste and calling it a contract. Left
  unedited for now — three specs, three regenerations to verify, and an unverified spec
  edit is the thing this session has twice been burned by.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
WHAT THE SWEEP ACTUALLY DOES NOW — three corrections, each found by the previous one

  The numbers above were produced by a tool that has since been corrected three times, so
  they are a floor rather than a measurement. Recorded as method, with counts deliberately
  left to the re-run rather than written twice:

  1. COVERAGE IS REPORTED. The sweep re-scans the corpus for each pattern, independently
     of its own site selection, and prints matched-vs-probed. Not a self-report: reusing
     the selector would let a silently narrowing selector agree with itself.

  2. --all-sites NOW MEANS EVERY SITE. The counter's first output was
     `status code: matched 123, probed 14` — the flag had been probing one write per FILE
     while its name, this file's header and two findings all said otherwise. Fixed; the
     probe count went 39 -> 121.

  3. THE MUTATION TARGETS THE LINE THAT WAS FOUND. It had been doing
     `re.subn(..., count=1)` over whole-file text, so it edited whichever occurrence came
     first — and shortener's handlers.go names `http.StatusMovedPermanently` in a DOC
     COMMENT six lines above the code. The sweep reported SURVIVED for a mutation that only
     ever edited a comment. A hole announced where none exists, which is the one direction
     a hole hunter must never fail in.

     It surfaced because the registry disagreed: that redirect has a registered teeth
     mutation and it has always been CAUGHT. Two independent instruments, neither looking
     for this, and the contradiction was the signal.

  4. And two more, found by trying to ANALYSE the tool rather than run it: importing it
     executed a full sweep (module body now under main()), and 27 status sites were skipped
     silently because StatusInternalServerError had no swap defined — which is the coverage
     line doing its job, turning an unexplained gap into a specific answer.

  THE PATTERN ACROSS ALL OF THEM: every defect made the sweep report FEWER holes or a
  cleaner corpus, except the one that invented a hole. Under-sampling and false-positives
  are not symmetrical risks — the first is invisible and flattering, the second is loud and
  gets caught by the next instrument that disagrees.

  THE RE-RUN, with every correction in:

      status code      matched 123   probed 123      full coverage
      response header  matched  10   probed   9      shapes 2 and 3 still take one
      sort order       matched   7   probed   6        site per FILE — stated, not hidden
      error wrapping   matched  10   probed  10

      148 probes · 13 SURVIVED · 2 SURVIVED* (known-benign)

  Against the first run's 39 probes and 9 survivors. Two things worth reading off it:

  - The 27 StatusInternalServerError sites, unprobed until a swap was defined for them,
    produced ZERO new survivors. Full coverage of a shape can confirm health as well as
    find holes, and the confirmation only means something because the coverage line proves
    the sites were actually visited.
  - Four new SURVIVED candidates appeared purely from probing more sites — jsonapi and
    kvservice (StatusBadRequest), ratelimit (StatusTooManyRequests), and two more in
    taskflow (StatusConflict, and a second StatusOK). Every one needs the spec check before
    it counts; on past form roughly half will turn out to be behaviour no spec asked for.

  COMPLETED — all four shapes now probe every site, and the coverage line proves it:

      status code      123 / 123        response header   10 / 10
      sort order         7 /   7        error wrapping    10 / 10

      150 probes · 14 SURVIVED · 2 SURVIVED* (known-benign)

  The 14th survivor, surfaced by the last two sites opening up, is ratelimit dropping
  Content-Type — and its spec never mentions Content-Type, so it joins the spec-gap pile
  rather than the hole pile. FINAL TALLY: 9 genuine undefended promises, 5 spec gaps
  (Content-Type in five services, none of which asks for it), 2 known-benign.

  Worth noting what full coverage bought, since it is the end of a long correction
  sequence: it went 39 probes -> 150 and 9 survivors -> 14, of which THREE were genuine
  holes and ONE was a false positive that a comment mutation had invented. The false
  positive is the important one — it was caught by the teeth registry disagreeing, not by
  the sweep, which is the argument for keeping two instruments that can contradict each
  other rather than one that everyone trusts.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE FOUR NEW CANDIDATES, SPEC-CHECKED — three genuine, and all three the same shape

  jsonapi    main.go  two 400 sites: one CAUGHT, one SURVIVED.
             Spec promises both — "400 for invalid Content-Type" AND "POST an empty
             message returns 400". GENUINE, half-defended.
  ratelimit  middleware.go  two 429 sites: one CAUGHT, one SURVIVED.
             Spec: "when denied it responds 429 with a JSON body". The handler writes the
             status twice (WriteHeader then writeJSON); one write is pinned, the other is
             not. GENUINE, half-defended.
  taskflow   projects_handler.go  409 SURVIVED.
             Spec: "store it returning 201, 409 on ErrExists". GENUINE.
  kvservice  main.go  400 SURVIVED, and the spec never mentions 400 at all.
             NOT a hole — a spec gap, like the three Content-Type cases.

  RUNNING TALLY: 9 genuine undefended promises (was 6), 2 closed, 7 open.
  ⚠️ CORRECTED BELOW: ratelimit's 429 turned out to be a dead-value false positive, so the
  genuine count is 8, of which 3 are now closed and 5 remain open.

  THE SHAPE IS NOW THE MAJORITY FINDING, not an oddity. Four of the nine — taskflow's
  ErrValidation (1 undefended wrap of 3), tasks-api's ErrInvalidTask (4 errors.Is asserts,
  all on the OTHER sentinel), jsonapi's second 400, ratelimit's second 429 — are the same
  thing: ONE promise, SEVERAL sites in the code, and a suite that pins some of them.

  Every audit that works at the level of a file, an API or a promise reports these as
  covered, because at that level they ARE covered. "Does the suite check 400?" — yes.
  "Does it use errors.Is?" — yes, four times. The undefended half is only visible if you
  ask the question once per SITE, which is what a sweep does and what reading for coverage
  structurally cannot.

  It also explains why the hand campaign reached 29 CAUGHT / 0 SURVIVED honestly: a person
  choosing invariants to test picks the promise, writes one mutation for it, and moves on
  when it is caught. The mutation lands on whichever site comes to mind — usually the one
  the test already covers, because that is the one they just read.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
A THIRD FALSE-POSITIVE CATEGORY — the mutated value is DEAD

  ratelimit's two 429 sites sit on consecutive lines:

      w.WriteHeader(http.StatusTooManyRequests)                       line 17  CAUGHT
      writeJSON(w, http.StatusTooManyRequests, {"error": "..."})      line 18  SURVIVED

  and `writeJSON` itself calls `w.WriteHeader(status)`. Go ignores a second WriteHeader —
  it logs "superfluous response.WriteHeader call" and keeps the first status. So line 18's
  status ARGUMENT cannot affect the response at all: the promise is defended by line 17,
  the test is right, and the surviving mutation edits a value that is dead.

  NOT a hole. Checked before spending a fleet run on a closure that would have "fixed"
  nothing and produced a graded, published, wrong result.

  So a SURVIVED row now has three known ways of not being a hole:
    1. the spec never promised the behaviour        (5 cases — Content-Type)
    2. the change is real but only reaches a log    (2 cases — statusRecorder default)
    3. the mutated value is DEAD                    (1 case — this one)

  Each was found by asking a different question — does the SPEC say it, does anything
  OBSERVE it, and can the value reach the response at all — and none of them is visible in
  the verdict. A sweep produces candidates; the classification is separate work and it has
  now cost more thought than the sweep did.

  AND THE DOUBLE WRITE IS ITSELF WORTH SEEING. ratelimit writes the status twice, which Go
  warns about at runtime and which no test, gate or spec in this project notices. It is
  not a bug — the response is correct — but it is the shape of one, and the only reason it
  surfaced is that a mutation landed on the dead half.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
CORRECTION — "sort order is fully defended" was wrong, and wrongly for the usual reason

  Switching the mutators from text-matching to LINE INDEX (needed because jsonapi writes
  the same statement twice) turned two NOAPPLY rows into probes, and one of them survived:

      taskflow  store.go:77   ListTasks     reverse sort by ID   CAUGHT
      taskflow  store.go:122  ListProjects  reverse sort by ID   SURVIVED

  The two lines are byte-identical, so the text mutator could only ever address one of
  them. The other was reported NOAPPLY and quietly excluded from the shape's verdict —
  which is how a shape with a hole in it came to be published as "SIX sites, ZERO holes,
  fully defended".

  SPEC CHECK: genuine. The spec names TestListSorted for TASKS and nothing for projects;
  no test in the artifact touches ListProjects' order. Third instance of taskflow's
  twin-route shape, alongside the projects malformed-body 400 and the projects
  Content-Type — the tasks route is specified and tested in detail, and its twin inherits
  the implementation without inheriting the tests.

  TALLY: 9 genuine undefended promises (8 after removing ratelimit's dead-value case, +1
  here), 3 closed, 6 open.

  WHAT THIS COSTS ME TO SAY: I published "fully defended" for this shape twice — in this
  file and in TEETH.md's yield table — and used it as the example that a shape yielding
  nothing is still a result. The reasoning was fine. The input was an addressing limit
  reported as a clean sweep, which is the exact failure this file has now documented four
  times in its own instrument. Under-sampling does not announce itself; it produces a
  smaller, tidier, entirely plausible table.