PREDICTION — ratelimit's burst cap: promised, and is it tested?
Written 2026-07-17 21:1x (clock READ), BEFORE the mutation. Model-free.

THE INVARIANT: a token bucket's whole point is that burst is bounded by capacity
even after a long idle. bucket.go clamps it:
    b.tokens += elapsed * b.refillPerSec
    if b.tokens > float64(b.capacity) { b.tokens = float64(b.capacity) }
Drop that clamp and a client that idles 100s on a refill of 1/s accumulates 100
tokens and can fire 100 requests at once — the rate limiter is defeated. Same
SHAPE as the ledger hole: a real, security-relevant invariant that green may not
pin.

WHAT THE TEST ACTUALLY DOES (read, not assumed): TestBucket makes a capacity-2
bucket, spends both tokens, asserts the 3rd is denied, advances the fake clock ONE
second (refillPerSec 1 => +1 token), asserts one more Allow. It NEVER idles longer
than capacity/refill, so tokens never try to exceed the cap. The clamp is not
exercised by this path.

I PREDICT: remove the clamp, and build+vet+test stay GREEN. No test idles long
enough to accumulate more than `capacity` tokens and then checks the burst is
still bounded.
IF IT GOES RED: a test does pin the cap and I report the gap as imaginary.

--- 21:2x — RESULT: prediction HELD, but the finding is SUBTLER than ledger's ---
Clamp removed -> build+vet+test GREEN. The suite has NO TEETH for the burst cap.

BUT — and this is the honest distinction I nearly flattened — the ratelimit
ARTIFACT IS CORRECT. The clamp IS present, because the IMPLEMENTATION-spec names
it: "Seconds()*refillPerSec capped at capacity". The model did the right thing.
What is missing is a TEST, and the TEST-spec's silence is why: it asks only for
"NewBucket(2,1) allows 2 then denies; advance one second allows one more" — a path
that never idles long enough to try to exceed the cap. So no test defends the
invariant, and the mutation proves it.

TWO DISTINCT SHAPES OF THE SAME THESIS, now both measured:
  ledger      — code WRONG: a spec-NAMED test was dropped, and its absence let a
                genuinely broken artifact (credits vanish) ship green. Model
                failure, caught by the named-test audit.
  ratelimit   — code RIGHT, suite TOOTHLESS: the clamp is there, but the test-spec
                never asks for the long-idle case, so the suite cannot defend it.
                A future draw that drops the clamp — or any regression — ships
                green. NOT caught by the named-test audit (the spec names no cap
                test to be missing), NOT caught by coverage (the clamp line is
                executed by the short test; executed is not asserted). ONLY
                mutation finds it.
UNIFYING INSIGHT: coverage measures LINES RUN; it cannot measure INVARIANTS
DEFENDED. A line can be executed by a test that never checks what it produces.
Mutation is the only instrument here that asks "does the suite have teeth", and
it found a hole the audit structurally cannot see because the hole is an UNNAMED
promise, not a dropped named one.

THE FIX (spec edit, so blast radius, so audit before/after): strengthen
ratelimit_test.go's purpose to NAME a cap test — idle the fake clock well past
capacity/refill, then assert the burst is still bounded by capacity. Not doing it
tonight (server busy, and a spec edit is a global perturbation I will not fire
blind); recorded as the next ratelimit action with the before/after audit
mandatory.

--- 21:2x — CONTROL (predicted CAUGHT, to bound the claim and not just confirm it) ---
Deliberately picked the case I expected to BITE, because two MISSED predictions in
a row is exactly the shape of a story I want to be true. taskapi: 41 tests, a
test-spec that NAMES TestCreateDuplicate. Mutated CreateTask's dup guard to return
nil instead of ErrExists.
PREDICTED: CAUGHT (RED). RESULT: CAUGHT.
    --- FAIL: TestCreateDuplicate: second CreateTask: err = <nil>, want ErrExists
So "coverage cannot see invariants" is NOT universal, and I am glad I checked
rather than generalising from two holes.

THE DISCRIMINATOR IS THE TEST-SPEC, and the three cases pin it exactly:
    taskapi    test-spec NAMES the invariant (TestCreateDuplicate)  -> CAUGHT
    ledger     test-spec named it, model DROPPED it                 -> MISSED
    ratelimit  test-spec SILENT on the cap                          -> MISSED
It is not model quality and not project complexity. It is whether the test-spec
NAMES the invariant. When it does, the model writes the test and the suite bites;
when it is silent, or the named test is dropped, the suite is toothless and green
lies. This is the project's own founding thesis — silence in the spec is where
things break — applied to TEST specs specifically, and now with a control that
disconfirms the over-general version.

CONSEQUENCE FOR THE AGENT: the test-spec must name every invariant, and the
quality gate needs BOTH halves — the named-test audit (is the named test present)
AND mutation (does it bite). Coverage is neither. That is the durable design note.
