PREDICTION — does the self-deadlock gate make shortener CONVERGE, not just detect?
Written 2026-07-17 ~21:2x (clock READ), BEFORE the run. Filed after committing the
gate (f592b59) but BEFORE any run exercises it.

WHAT IS ALREADY TRUE (not predicted — measured):
  - The detector is sound: 3/3 on the deadlocked files, 0 false positives on 14
    correct mutex files in the suite. 320 unit tests pass, 6 of them pinning this
    check's positives AND its false-positive traps.
  - The gate cannot REGRESS: if every candidate deadlocks, _sample_clean falls
    back to `first`, the toolchain sees the same file it would have, and the 60s
    timeout is unchanged. Worst case is a few wasted resample draws.

THE OPEN QUESTION, which only a fresh run (new builder, gate live) can answer:
  When _is_clean REJECTS a deadlocked candidate during best-of-N or a fix round,
  does the temperature-stepped RESAMPLE produce a Resolve() with a single Lock()?
  The gate detects; convergence needs the redraw to actually differ on this file.

I PREDICT (falsifiable, one shortener run with the current builder, gate on by
default — no flag, this is not gated):
  MODERATE confidence, and I am honest that it is a coin-flip dressed up: I do not
  know whether higher-temperature draws move Resolve() off the RLock-then-Lock
  shape. The mutex-intra run showed the shape is the model's stubborn prior. IF
  the resample is also stubborn, the gate rejects, the fallback ships the
  deadlock, and shortener STAYS RED — the gate then bought detection and log
  clarity but not a green. IF the resample varies, shortener goes GREEN ~70 and
  the gate is a convergence fix, not just a detector.
  Point prediction, so it can be wrong: shortener STAYS RED this run. Reason: the
  deadlock was 4/4 deterministic across the completeness A/B and 1/1+ in
  mutex-intra; determinism that strong is unlikely to break under a temperature
  step alone. I expect the gate to REJECT correctly and the redraw to reproduce
  the deadlock, so the fallback ships it. I would be glad to be wrong.

WHAT EACH OUTCOME MEANS, named before the run:
  GREEN => the gate is a convergence fix. Best case. Ship it on (already on).
  RED, gate fired in the log ("Resolve re-locks a mutex...") => the gate works as
    a detector but the model cannot redraw its way out, so the deadlock needs a
    REPAIR (like the fix-loop repairs for dropped fixtures): mechanically rewrite
    RLock+deferred-RUnlock+later-Lock into a single Lock at the top. That is the
    next build, and it is a small, safe, deterministic transform — the correct
    version is literally "delete the RLock/RUnlock pair, hoist Lock to the top",
    which I already did by hand to prove the bug (green 69.8%).
  RED, gate did NOT fire => my detector misses this artifact's exact shape (maybe
    a formatting variant), and I open it and fix the detector before anything else.

RUN PLAN (after mutex-intra finishes — one process, no parallel generation):
  ./_ab_run.sh shortener   (gate is on by default now; no env flag)
  then: read the log for the gate's dirty-reason, count Resolve's lock calls in
  the artifact, and run _mutant_check is N/A here (this is about the store's own
  deadlock, which the suite's own timeout already exercises).

--- 21:5x (clock READ) — GATE TEST RESULT: PREDICTION REFUTED. THE GATE CONVERGES. ---
I predicted RED (the resample reproduces the deadlock). It went GREEN 69.8%. The
log shows the whole mechanism:
    best-of-N gen: kept candidate 1 of 2
    rejected gen candidate 1: Resolve re-locks a mutex it already holds
        (deferred unlock) — deadlocks          <- THE GATE FIRED
    best-of-N gen: kept candidate 2 of 2        <- took the resample instead
    converged to green after fix round 1
Shipped Resolve: `s.mu.Lock(); defer s.mu.Unlock(); l,ok:=s.links[code]; ...;
l.Hits++; s.links[code]=l` — a single write lock, correct. Gate verdict on the
artifact: clean.

So the gate is a CONVERGENCE FIX, not merely a detector — the best-case outcome I
named. My RED prediction was WRONG, and I am glad: I predicted the resample would
be as stubborn as the deadlock was deterministic, and it was not. The clean
before/after: WITHOUT the gate the deadlock shipped to the toolchain and timed out
(completeness A/B, 4/4 red); WITH the gate, candidate 1's deadlock is rejected,
candidate 2 ships, GREEN. n=1 on the green, but the log makes the mechanism
explicit, not inferred. NO deadlock repair is needed — the resample already
supplies the clean draw the gate's rejection forces it to use.

WHY MY PREDICTION WAS WRONG, traced honestly: I based "too deterministic to redraw
out of" on the completeness A/B's 4/4. But that was 4 separate FIRST draws, all
deadlocked. The gate does not need a clean FIRST draw — it needs a clean draw
among the RESAMPLES, and best-of-N candidate 2 (a different temperature) was clean.
The determinism I cited was determinism of the greedy draw, not of the resample
distribution. rep 3 of mutex-intra had already hinted the distribution has spread;
I under-weighted it.
