PREDICTION — does extending mutex_rule's wording fix the intra-method deadlock?
Written 2026-07-17 20:12 (clock READ — mtime-checked), BEFORE the run.

THE FINDING THIS TESTS (committed 59a4ef8, proved model-free earlier tonight):
shortener's store.go Resolve() takes RLock() then, still holding it, Lock() on
the same RWMutex — an intra-method self-deadlock. 4/4 in this server process
(PID 3082), across the completeness A/B's four arms. mutex_rule FIRES on the file
but its wording is entirely cross-method ("call ANOTHER METHOD of this type"), so
it does not describe one method locking itself twice, and the model writes the
deadlock anyway. Model-free proof: a single Lock() -> GREEN 69.8%. One line.

THE CONTROL IS ALREADY MEASURED — I do not need to re-run it. Current wording =
4/4 deadlock in PID 3082, established minutes ago by the completeness A/B (ON and
OFF arms alike; the extension is orthogonal to completeness). So this is a
same-process A/B where the OFF arm is history and only the ON arm is new.

THE CHANGE: one sentence appended to mutex_rule, GATED behind
rule_enabled("mutex_intra"). Off by default — verified: default prompt does NOT
contain it, GUILDLM_ENABLE_RULES=mutex_intra does, and only on files whose
purpose names sync.Mutex. Zero blast radius until this earns it. 80 builder unit
tests still pass. The off-arm and on-arm are therefore the SAME builder commit,
which is the condition rule_disabled()'s own docstring demands (running the
off-arm from an older commit "silently changes MORE than the rule under test").

I PREDICT (falsifiable, 3 reps, GUILDLM_ENABLE_RULES=mutex_intra, same process):
  Resolve() takes Lock() ONCE, no RLock. The deadlock CLEARS in all 3 reps.
  shortener goes GREEN, coverage ~70. testfuncs unchanged at 8 (this is a store
  bug, not a test bug — the tests were always fine; they were hanging on it).
  Confidence: MODERATE-TO-HIGH. The bug is a standard-idiom slip and the added
  sentence names it in the exact shape it appears (Hits++ -> writer -> Lock at
  top). But the model ignored the cross-method half often enough that this rule
  exists at all, so wording is not a guarantee — hence 3 reps, not 1.

WHAT WOULD REFUTE ME, named so I cannot slide past it:
  - Deadlock persists in any rep => the wording does not reach this failure. The
    extension does not ship, and either the wording is wrong or prompt-level
    teaching cannot fix this class and it needs a GATE (a check that rejects a
    method containing both RLock and Lock on the same receiver). I would say so.
  - shortener goes green but a DIFFERENT spec's mutex file breaks => the sentence
    has a cost elsewhere, and per today's blast-radius law I must audit the specs
    where mutex_rule currently works BEFORE shipping. That check (ledger,
    taskapipro, workapi, kvservice, ratelimit — the mutex-bearing specs) is the
    REQUIRED second half before any default flip, and this run does not replace
    it. This run only answers "does it fix the thing it was written for".
  - Green returns but coverage is well below ~70, or testfuncs move off 8 => the
    fix perturbed more than the lock, and I open the artifact instead of counting
    it a win. (The 49->48 that started today began exactly this way.)

SCOPE, stated so I do not overclaim: a PASS here means the wording FIXES the bug
it was built for, in one process. It does NOT by itself justify turning the
extension on by default — that needs the mutex-spec regression sweep above, same
as every default this project has shipped. One experiment, one question.

--- 20:2x — THE REQUIRED SECOND HALF, pre-staged (not yet run) ---
IF mutex-intra passes (clears shortener's deadlock), turning the extension on by
default is a SEPARATE decision that needs a regression sweep — the sentence lands
in the mutex-file prompt of EVERY mutex-bearing spec, and today's law is that a
default's safety comes from the regime it is used in. The mutex-bearing specs
(purpose names sync.Mutex, non-test .go file), enumerated now so the sweep is
ready:
  eventbus, kvservice, ledger, lrucache, ratelimit, shortener, taskapi,
  taskapipro, taskflow, tasks-api, tasks-api-min, tasks-api-noshadownudge,
  usersapi, walkv, workapi   (15 specs)
The sweep: each of these ON vs OFF (extension), same process, and the pass bar is
"no spec that is green without the sentence goes red with it". That is a ~2-4h
run and it is NOT tonight's question. Tonight answers only whether the wording
fixes what it was written for. The flip waits on the sweep, as every default here
has.

--- 21:0x (clock READ) — REP 1 REFUTES. PROMPT WORDING DOES NOT REACH THIS. ---
rep 1: Resolve=RLock+Lock=DEADLOCK, NOT-GREEN. The extension IS in the prompt
(verified: "LOCK YOURSELF TWICE" present). The model read "Lock() once at the
top, no RLock" and wrote RLock-then-Lock anyway. reps 2-3 still running for the
record, but rep 1 alone triggers the refutation clause I named in advance:
  "Deadlock persists in any rep => the wording does not reach this failure. The
   extension does not ship, and ... it needs a GATE (a check that rejects a
   method containing both RLock and Lock on the same receiver)."
Reporting it refuted. The added sentence does NOT ship as a default (it stays
gated off; I will not delete it — like completeness, a measured-and-parked rule
is cheaper to revive than to rebuild — but it is OFF and marked ineffective).

WHY A GATE AND NOT MORE WORDS: the model has a strong prior — RLock for the read
half, Lock for the write half — and a sentence does not override it. This is the
same lesson the project already learned for dropped fixtures (self_dropped_decls):
a defect decidable FROM THE FILE ALONE belongs in a check, not a prompt. Intra-
method double-lock is exactly that: within one method body, the same mutex
acquired twice with the first release deferred is UNCONDITIONALLY a deadlock, and
it is decidable from the one file with no spec, no purpose, no call graph.

NEXT: build mutex_self_deadlock(code) as a static check in the why_dirty/_is_clean
chain. Prediction for it will be filed before it runs, and it will be VALIDATED
against artifacts on disk first — the deadlocked shortener Resolve (must flag) and
the CORRECT mutex files from ledger/taskapipro/workapi (must NOT flag). A gate
that false-positives on correct code is worse than none.

--- 21:5x — FULL RUN (3 reps): I RETRACT the rep-1 refutation as TOO STRONG. ---
I filed "wording does not reach this failure" from rep 1 ALONE. rep 3 contradicts
the strong form:
  rep 1: DEADLOCK   rep 2: DEADLOCK   rep 3: single-lock, GREEN 73.1
So WITH the extended wording: 2/3 deadlock, 1/3 CORRECT.
WITHOUT it (completeness A/B, 4 arms, same process): 4/4 deadlock.

HONEST READ, and it is neither of my two earlier framings:
  - My ORIGINAL prediction ("3/3 cleared, GREEN") is REFUTED — it is 1/3, not 3/3.
    The wording does NOT reliably fix it.
  - My REP-1 refutation ("wording does not reach this AT ALL") is ALSO WRONG, too
    strong the other way — rep 3 shows it CAN work. I wrote that from n=1 and it
    over-claimed exactly as the original did, in the opposite direction.
  - The measured truth is a WEAK, UNRELIABLE effect: 1/3 with wording vs 0/4
    without. n is tiny; this is suggestive, not significant. What it does establish
    firmly is that the model is NOT deterministic on this file — the same prompt
    yields deadlock twice and a correct single-lock once.
THE GATE IS STILL THE RIGHT ANSWER: a 1/3 wording effect is not good enough to
ship green reliably, and a check that rejects the 2/3 bad draws and resamples is
strictly better. But I am correcting the record: the wording is weakly helpful,
not inert, and I over-stated the refutation from a single rep — the same n=1
mistake I keep catching, this time in a refutation instead of a claim.

CONSEQUENCE FOR THE GATE TEST (running now, base prompt + gate, wording OFF):
  rep 3 proves a CORRECT Resolve is reachable by resampling. The gate rejects a
  deadlocked draw and steps temperature; if a clean draw exists at ~1/3, the gate
  may CONVERGE where the bare prompt shipped the deadlock. So my gate prediction
  (RED) is now LESS certain than when I filed it. I am NOT changing the point
  prediction — it was filed, and moving it now on this evidence is fine because it
  is BEFORE the result, but I note: GREEN is now clearly plausible, ~1/3-ish if the
  resample distribution matches. Recording this BEFORE the gate result lands.

--- 21:5x — CORRECTION TO MY CORRECTION: rep 3 is NOT correct code. 0/3, not 1/3. ---
I "corrected" the refutation by crediting rep 3 as a correct single-lock draw. I
was fooled by my OWN run-script check, which only tests "RLock AND non-R Lock ->
deadlock, else OK". rep 3's Resolve holds ONLY RLock — but MUTATES shared state
under it:
    s.mu.RLock(); defer s.mu.RUnlock()
    link, ok := s.m[code]
    link.Hits++
    s.m[code] = link          // WRITE to the shared map under a READ lock
    return link, nil
That is a DATA RACE, not correct code. It shipped GREEN only because the test
suite has no concurrent Resolve to trip -race. My check called it "single-lock=OK"
because it was looking for the deadlock shape, not for correctness — the exact
trap the whole day has been about: a crude proxy reported OK and I read the proxy,
not the code.

CORRECTED TALLY, extended wording: 2/3 deadlock, 1/3 DATA-RACE, 0/3 CORRECT.
So the wording did not produce correct code in ANY rep. It pushed rep 3 off the
deadlock and into a different, quieter bug. My rep-1 refutation ("wording does not
reach correctness") is now BETTER supported than my correction implied — I
over-corrected on a proxy, then have to un-correct on the code. Three swings on
one result; only opening the file settled it.

A THIRD BUG CLASS, noted not chased: mutate-shared-under-RLock. Statically
detectable (a method holding RLock that writes a field/map it guards), invisible
to the compiler AND to -race unless the test has concurrency. My deadlock gate
does NOT catch it (correctly — it is not a deadlock; the GATE artifact and rep 3
are both "clean" to that detector). A separate gate could: "a write to a
mutex-guarded field while holding only its RLock". Lower priority than the
deadlock (needs concurrency to bite) but the same category — a bug the green suite
cannot see. Filed as a candidate, not built; it would need its own validation
corpus and false-positive audit like the deadlock gate got.

--- 22:0x — DATA-RACE GATE: MEASURED PREVALENCE, DECISION = DO NOT BUILD (yet) ---
Before building a gate for the mutate-under-RLock race (rep 3's shape), I did what
the deadlock gate taught: measure whether the bug actually occurs before writing a
check for it. Scanned all 156 non-test .go files in the shipped green artifacts for
a method that holds ONLY RLock and writes a guarded field (`s.m[k]=`, `s.x=`,
`s.x++`). RESULT: ZERO. The pattern exists only in rep 3, a DISCARDED draft under
the extended wording that never shipped.
DECISION: do NOT build the data-race gate now. A gate for a bug with no corpus
prevalence is cost without benefit — it adds a check, a false-positive surface, and
maintenance for something that does not occur. The deadlock gate earned its place by
3/3 real occurrences; this has 0. If a future run ships this shape, the scan above
is the trigger to revisit. Filed as measured-and-declined, so it is not
re-investigated from scratch.
